# ETL-Project

Project Description: The purpose of our project was to create a database that incorporates the top 1000 movies based on metacritic ratings, adds imdb user ratings, and shows which streaming services currently have the movie available. 

Step 1: Extracting the data - 
We used webscraping to pull the metacritic data from metacritic.com, used downloadable .tsv files for the imdb data, and used an API to pull the streaming data from guidebox.com. 

Step 2: Transform the data - 
We opened the newly created .csv files (Year_Released Title and Metacritic Rating, imdb_db, netflix_titles, amazon_titles, hulu_titles in using pgAdmin. We then matched the movie title, year released, imdb user ratings, and which services are currently streaming the movies.

Step 3: Load the data - 
We pulled the final .csv file generated by postgres which compiled all of the data from the 5 CSV files and created the pandas dataframe. 

Final Comments - 
One of the most prevalent issues we had related to matching the metacritic data with the other data sources. There were a number of titles of the same name so we decided to do a secondary match on the release year. Even using the secondary match, noticed that there was a high number of non-matches (roughly 315) between the metacritic data and the other data sources (most of which we tested were errors from metacritic release year data). To make a more complete final list we adjusted the possible metacritic release year match to 5 years prior or 5 years after the year that was listed in the other data sources. This produced an additional 135 matches on top of the 685 we captured in the initial data merge.

See ETL_Project_Final for complete Jupyter Notebook.

